>> And so, we know already that,
in general, different test are more
versus less effective of predicting how a
candidate is going to perform on the job.
What people analytics allows us to do,
is go beyond this general, and
start thinking for this specific job,
what do we know about what makes
people effective and what doesn't?
So, in particular, with people analytics,
what we're usually trying to do with
hiring is takes people's performance,
how do they do at their job, and
try to understand what drives that.
And so, on the one hand we look at
a variety of performance measures.
And I think both Kade and Martine
are talking a little bit about some of
the challenges of using
performance appraisals.
We know that these are not great.
There's probably some
information in there.
And so, predicting who is likely
to get rated as high versus
low at least tells us who's gonna be
seen as fitting in in this organization.
On top of that, there are other things
that you might want to predict about
who's going to be a high performer.
So, increasingly in organizations,
there's a lot of objective information.
Obviously, if it's a sales job,
you can think about who's
going to have the most sales.
Call centers.
You now have huge amounts of data about
things like what people's average handle
time is.
Absenteeism.
Their availability.
We also have quality assurance.
We have customer satisfaction service.
And so, in some organizations you
have a great deal of information
about each individual on a more
kind of objective basis.
There are other things we also might
want to be able to predict about people.
So, attrition for example,
is a fairly hard measure.
Tells you something about who fit and
who didn't.
It can be important in its own right.
So, there's some organizations that
spend a lot of money training people.
If that's the case,
one of the important things you
wanna think about in your hiring is,
is this person going to stay long enough
for us to get a return on our investment.
You may also be interested in
understanding who the people
are promotable.
So, the idea is we say, okay,
we want to know who's going to do
well on these various measures.
And we want to figure out among
the people who are replying
which are gonna be the best bets.
And so, what you do is you
use those as kind of your
variables that you're trying to predict.
And then,
on the other side you put a series
of characteristics of the individual that
you know at the time they're applying,
say which of these actually
predicts performance?
So, one of these you might look at
is the resume, their background,
their characteristics, and so on.
So, one of the things that Google has been
a pioneer in this area found out when they
did this was that they had been
famously for years asking for college
transcripts for everybody from junior to
senior people and looking at their GPAs.
When they actually sat down and
looked at what predicted performance,
they found that once people
had been out of college for
more than a couple of years, GPA had
no value whatsoever as a predictor.
And so, they said, okay, this is not
something we should be screening on.
Interestingly, apparently another
investment bank did this recently and
actually they found in their case
GPA was predictive of performance.
Which speaks, in part,
to the value of doing this in different
ways in different organizations.
Because what predicts performance
is going to depend in part
on the nature of the role.
Another thing that you might
look at is test scores.
So, if you run a series of intelligence
tests, personality tests, job knowledge
tests, and so on, which of those are going
to predict who performs well on the job.
And then you can also look at interviews.
So, in a structured interview, like I say,
rather than just sitting down,
getting to know somebody, what you're
really trying to do is figure out
where they score on the various
different attributes.
And so, you should have a series of
questions that are aimed to tap into those
attributes where you can rate them kind
of high, medium, low on that attribute.
There's then the possibility to go back
after a year or two and say, okay,
which of these questions and types of
questions actually seems to predict
whether or not they're going to do
well on the job and which don't.
Again, another nice story that Google
shared with the public, they were famous
for a series of questions that basically
asked people to think out of the box.
So, these kind of, how many golf
balls could you fit in a jumbo jet?
How many call boxes
are there in Manhattan?
I remember when I was applying to
consulting jobs about 20 years ago,
somebody asked me how many ties are sold
in Great Britain in the average year.
I just thought, who knows?
The idea of these is not that you know
the answer, but rather that you try and
think through and
that they can kind of stump you and
see how you respond to a question
you haven't thought about before.
Can you be creative?
Can you structure an answer thoroughly,
all those sorts of things.
And so, it's this nice idea behind it.
We can really see how smart people are.
Again, turned out not to work at all.
Completely unpredictive of performance.
And so, on the base of that, they're
trying to move away from these questions,
persuade people not to ask them.
So, you can figure out what
kind of questions work.
You can also start even to look at which
interviewers have done a better job
of predicting who's going to be
a high performer and who isn't.
And the idea is on the base of this
variable to choose who interviews and
even what kind of tests we use.
Some people have gone even further.
So, JetBlue told a very nice story about
how they are using these analytics.
When they hire flight attendants,
one of the big questions was
is it more important that they're
friendly or that they're helpful?
Because you can have people who
smile a lot and say nice things, but
then the person will actually lift your
bag, help you get it up, looks for
people who actually need assistance and
that sort of thing.
And so, it really wasn't clear
to them which one was better.
Not clear to me either, although my
colleagues will tell you on either
basis I am unlikely to
get a job on JetBlue.
When they tried to figure this out, what
they did was they ran a little experiment.
They went and they asked their customers
to rate their flight attendants.
Is this person friendly?
Are they helpful?
What do you think.
And also to rate their
overall customer experience.
Are they likely to recommend
JetBlue to somebody else?
And to see,
was their rating of the airline higher
when the customer was friendly or helpful?
And on this basis they discovered
that actually it's helpfulness
that was more valuable.
And so that enabled them to
further fine tune their hiring.
Once they knew what was really important
in this job, then they could think about
how are we going to go out and
actually screen for that.
And so, the idea, then, is basically
to take these predictors and see,
based on what we know about the people in
our organization who are performing well,
which of these predictors
do tell us something
about what people's
performance is likely to be?
In doing this,
there are a few things to bare in mind.
Okay?
First, the most obviously, you want
to be comparing apples with apples.
So, if you're looking at differences in
performance, you want to make sure that
people are doing the same work in
the same place, or at the same level.
All of those sorts of things.
You really want to hold that constant
because, otherwise, it's quite
possible that what you're really seeing is
differences in what people are supposed to
be doing rather than actually differences
in their attributes driving performance.
A pernicious version of this is you
want to be very wary of time in the job.
Generally, we expect certainly we
people have been in the job for
a moderate period of time, they're going
to be better at what they are doing.
So, are you really comparing people
new versus medium in the job, or
are you comparing people who are all
in the same job at the same time?
The second thing that you want to be
concerned about, and I'll get into this
in more detail in a minute, is the idea
of of disentangling influences.
Right?
So, often you have multiple
different attributes of people.
So, they vary on their education,
their experience levels,
what it was they were doing.
So, we see their friendliness, their
helpfulness, all of these sorts of things.
And the challenge is if you just
look at one of these variables,
is it that that's predicting performance,
or
is it just that it's highly
correlated with something else.
You wanna disentangle those
influences to make sure you really
are getting at the attributes
that drive performance.
One of the things you wanna do there
as well is probable just apply a bit of
common sense.
If you look at any data set you're gonna
see a bunch of different patterns.
Some of them are gonna be real.
You would see them in
any similar data set.
Some of them are not.
So there are various statistical
techniques for trying to figure out which
are the real ones, but also probably
applying a modicum of common sense.
Does this make sense?
Can we figure out why this would be,
is an important thing to do.
The final, and more tricky piece, is that
it's also worth thinking about what we're
doing here is we're taking the people that
we hired and seeing how does what we knew
about them before we hired them help
predict how they're performing today.
Well, that's not the same sample
as our general applicants.
Okay?
The people who we have now,
we weeded out a bunch.
And so, it's not exactly
the same as predicting who out of
the general applicants will perform well.
It creates a number of
statistical biases that I think,
if you're really serious about this,
you need some attention to.